1. How would you secure your APIs which are accessible to users.
2. If production data is deleted by mistake, how will you handle the situation.
3. Sensitive secrets accidentally get committed to a Git repository, how would you address this and prevent it from happening again.
4. There is a requirement to deploy an application across multiple cloud providers to improve availability. How would you design Deployment.
5. How will you do monitoring and logging if there are multi cloud platforms. What solution will you provide.
6. Difference between code smells, bugs, vulnerabilities, and technical debt from the codebase in sonarqube.
7. Write the Kubernetes manifest file to deploy the new replica agent as a DaemonSet in kubernetes cluster
8. Write the docker file to create a httpd container and copy a config file and place in container and that config file data should be shown when the container port and IP address is hit.
9. Does your project needs AI also, with DevOps/SRE tools?
10. Kubernetes Migration / Cost Optimization how have you done?
11. How did you design your EKS cluster ?
12. How the setup is done for kubernetes cluster?
13.What type of Instances used for worker nodes in kubernetes?
14. Have you done any performance engineering to select R type instance?
15. Why you have choose M type to R type instance for your kubernetes cluster?
16. Explain any kubernetes troubleshooting scenarios
17. What will you do if ETCD sever data is lost?
18. What is your deployment strategy

1. What is the role of IAM roles and policies?
2. Can you explain the Terraform plan and its purpose?
3. What is AWS Lambda. and how does it work?
4. How do you invoke a Lambda function, anc where do you configure it?
5. Can you describe how Lambda handles scaling and event-based invocations?
6. What is Amazon CloudWatch, and have you configured any custom metrics?
7. What metrics are available on your CloudWatch dashboard?
8. How do you configure CPU utilization on your CloudWatch dashboard:
9. How do you attach an SSL certificate to an S3 bucket?
10. What type of encryption have you mplemented in your project?
11. If an S3 bucket has a read-only policy, can you modify objects in the bucket?
12. Why did you choose Terraform over Boto3 for infrastructure provisioning?
13. What is a Content Delivery Network (CDN) and how does it work?
14. Have you created a Jenkins pipeline for yout project?
15. How do you attach policies to IAM users either individually or by group?
16. What tvpe of deployment strategies are you using in your project?
17. Have you used any tools to create customized Amazon Machine lmages (AMIs)?
18. What is connection draining, and how does it work?
19. How does an Elastic Load Balancer (ELB distribute traffic?
20. What is auto-scaling, and how does it work?

1. Can you introduce yourself and about the day to dav activities ?
2. Can vou give me 5 linux commands which your using on a day to day basis ?
3. Lets say a Java based application is running on 8089 port, you want to deploy an applicatior on the same port, how do check which app is usina which port in linux ?
4. what are inodes in linux ? 5. what are iptables ?
6. Explain cron iobs and why it is used ? and explain grep and sed commands with an example?
7. Explain the flow of execution when I hit any <ubectl commands ? Which all components gets involved ?
8. How many types of services are there in k8s ? and when to use which one ?
9. and what does ingress do ?
10.  How to stop pod to pod communicatior within the namespace ?
11. If you were given a task to deploy a cockroach tv database in k8s, how will you do it ?
12. In cloud do you know what is peering anc transit gateway ? If i paired A to B and B to C. can a traffic flow to A to C ?
13. Difference between NACL's and Security groups ?
14. You denied a public ip of a resigned employee in your organization and add it with a priority 101 and the whitelist happened for the priority 95, sc what will happen ? will the allow work or deny work ?
15.  Explain the types of load balancers in the cloud ?
16.   Lets say we are on a zoom app, we are in a chit-chatting, which load balancer is being used right now ?
17. Out of these load balancers which one acknowledges that they received the packets at the receiver end ?
18. How can vou create and deploy the CICD pipeline in different env's ? Tell me how many stages vou use to build, deploy and also keep the security in mind ?
19. Do you know how to monitor memory in Ec2 instances ? If yes how ?
20. Do you have any experience in python ? If yes why and where have you used it ?

1. What is multi-stage build in docker ? 2. How will you handle secrets in docker image ? 3. What happens to the application if the docker container is stopped ?
4. How to see the running containers in docker ? 5. How to run a stopped container ?
6. How can vou trouble-shoot the failec container ?
7. What is the different between configMap and secrets in K8s?
8. What is the use of etcd in k8s ?
9. Explain different types of k8s service and the use-case?
10. If k8s node is in not readv state, what are steps vou take to trouble-shoot it ?
11. If you commit the changes in the git, the Jenkins jobs should automatically trigger, How can you do it?
12. Difference between declarative and scriptec pipeline ?
13. Explain VPC and its components in AWS
14. How will you establish a communicatior between 2 VPC's, explain briefly ?
15.  Different types of load balancers, when you will use the types?
16.   How will the load will be distributed in loac balancers?
17. Difference between git rebase and git merge ?
18. In Linux, if you want to kill a specific port number, what command to use ?
19. How can you give execute permission for a file ?
20. What is the use of SonarQube quality gate?
21. Say you have 1 worker node and 1 maste node, Whenever you deploy, the traffic should only go to particular worker node, how can u design manifest for this ?
22. What is ingress in Kubernetes ?
23. How do handle the outgoing traffic in k8s ?
24. Which pod will be used to deploy metrics related tools in k8s ?
25. What is the deployment strategy your were using ?

1. tell me something about yourself
2. what is the function in aws lambda
3. tell me types of routing policies in route 53
4. what is the difference between terraform and CloudFront
5. why we use terraform import command
6. explain how CNI works in Kubernetes
7. can i know how many exp you have in monitoring and logging
8. lets have a scenario you are experiencing high CPU utilization on vour ec2 instances how woulc you use CloudWatch to troubleshoot this issue
9. how would you setup Prometheus to monitor a custom application that you've developed
10. you need to create a Grafana alert to notify you when the CPU utilization of a specific ec2 instance exceeds 90% how would you configure the alert
11. how do you approach troubleshooting a vpc-related issue ? Describe your systematic approach including gathering information analyzing logs and using troubleshooting tools
12. how do you troubleshoot subnet issues such as insufficient ip addresses or overlapping CIDR Block
13 your company has multiple vpc for different teams or environments how would you manage and optimize there vpo
14.what is rds in aws, your rds database is under heavy load stating to degrade in performance, what your option to scale the database handle the increased load
15.you need to implement a complete ci/cd pipeline for an application hosted on aws using aws services what tool and services would vou choose why
16. what is the recent problem you have tc resolve with respect to eks
17. How do you ensure the quality and reliability of a CI/CD pipeline, and what metrics do you use to track that ?
* Automated Testing at Every Stage * Rollback Mechanism


1. Can vou brief vour self and your project and responsibilities?
2. How do you migrate a git based repo from one of its kind to another git based repo(like GitHub to GitLab) along with its commit history? what are the steps you follow?
3. Application on AWS EC2 behind the
oadbalancer suddenly unavailable, how do you troubleshoot
4. AWS billing increased suddenly, how do you identify the costs
5. A developer asking Ec2 instance for his loca deployment, how you will achieve and what type of instance you create and qive it to them
6. In kubernetes a pod is going to crashloopbackoff, how do vou troubleshoot
7. Kubernetes deployment done successfully but unable to access the application externally, how do you troubleshoot
8. When kubernetes node fails what will happen 9. In pod configuration what we should do from Production perspective
10. What is Git and why we are using it and what is branching strategy
11. How do you write in yaml to create a ci/cd pipeline from scratch to test and deploy from Dev to UAT
12. what is maven and explain about repositories 13.I have a senerio to deploy an application on 1 00 servers using Ansible, how do you perform it 1 4. Docker containers stopped suddenly afte starting, how do you troubleshoot
15. Jenkins pipeline deployment failed ir production but working in Dev, how do you troubleshoot and fix the issues 16. What is argocd and why we are usina it
17. what is Gitops
