1. Can you introduce yourself and about the day to dav activities ?
2. Can you give me 5 linux commands which your using on a day to day basis ?
3. Lets say a Java based application is runninc on 8089 port, you want to deploy an application on the same port, how do check which app is using which port in linux ?
4. what are inodes in linux ? 5. what are iptables ?
6. Explain cron jobs and why it is used ? anc explain grep and sed commands with an example?
7. Explain the flow of execution when I hit any <ubectl commands ? Which all components gets involved ?
8. How many types of services are there in k8s ? and when to use which one ?
9. and what does inaress do ?
10. How to stop pod to pod communication ithin the namespace ?
11. If you were given a task to deploy a
cockroach tv database in k8s, how will you do it ? 12. In cloud do vou know what is peering and
transit gateway ? lf i paired A to B and B to C, can a traffic flow to A to C :
13. Difference between NACL's and Security groups?
1 4. You denied a public ip of a resigned employee n your organization and add it with a priority 101 and the whitelist happened for the priority 95, sc what will happen ? will the allow work or deny work?
15. Explain the types of load balancers in the cloud ?
16. Lets say we are on a zoom app, we are in a chit-chatting, which load balancer is being used right now ?
17. Out of these load balancers which one acknowledges that they received the packets at the receiver end ?
18. How can you create and deploy the CICD pipeline in different env's ? Tell me how many stages you use to build, deploy and also keep the security in mind ?
19. Do you know how to monitor memory in Ec2 instances ? If yes how ?
20. Do you have any experience in python ? If yes why and where have you used it?


1. Can vou describe the different types of Load Balancers and provide examples?
2. What is the maximum runtime for a Lambda function?
3. What is the maximum memory size for a Lambda function?
4. How can vou increase the runtime for a Lambda function?
5. What automations have you performed using Lambda in your project?
6. Why did vou choose Terraform over Cloud Formation for infrastructure provisioning?
7. What modules have you used in your Lambda function?
8. Have you created an SNS topic for your project?
9. If you've exhausted IP addresses in your VPC now would you provision new resources?
10. What is Groovy, and how is it used in Jenkins? 11. Why do you use Groovy in Jenkins, and where do you save Jenkins files?
12. What is Ansible, and what is its purpose? 13. What language do you use in Ansible?
14. Where do you run Terraform code, remotely or locally?
1 5. What is the purpose of access keys and secret kevs in AWS?
16. What are Terraform modules, and have you used any in your project?
17. What environments have you set up for youl project?
18. Do you use the same AWS account for all environments?
19. Do you have separate Jenkins servers for each environment?
20. Where do vou write and save vour Lambda function code?
21. How do you manage the cost optimization ir cloud environment services?
22. Do you have any questions for me?
If you find this useful, consider repostin

1. What is multi-stage build in docker ? 2. How will you handle secrets in docker image ? 3. What happens to the application if the docker container is stopped ?
4. How to see the running containers in docker : 5. How to run a stopped container ?
6. How can vou trouble-shoot the failed container?
7. What is the different between configMap ana secrets in K8s?
8. What is the use of etcd in k8s ?
9. Explain different types of k8s service and the use-case ?
10. If k8s node is in not ready state, what are steps vou take to trouble-shoot it ?
11. If you commit the changes in the git, the Jenkins jobs should automatically trigger, How can you do it?
12. Difference between declarative and scripted pipeline ?
13. Explain VPC and its components in AWS ? 14. How will you establish a communicatior between 2 VPC's, explain brieflv ?
1 5. Different types of load balancers, when you will use the types?
18. In Linux, if you want to kill a specific port number, what command to use
19. How can you give execute permission for a file ?
20. What is the use of SonarQube quality gate? 21. Say you have 1 worker node and 1 master node, Whenever you deploy, the traffic should only go to particular worker node, how can u design manifest for this
22. What is ingress in Kubernetes ?
23. How do handle the outgoing traffic in k8s ? 24. Which pod will be used to deploy metrics related tools in k8s ?
25. What is the deployment strategy your were using ?

1. Some of the applications are in AWS and some are on Azure, How can u achieve the communication between these 2 ?
2. My iobs should run on particular nodes, How can you do that in Jenkins?
3. What is the default port number of Jenkins, Is it changeable, If Yes How ?
4. ls s3 can be used to install an application, If Yes How, If no why ?
5. How can we take the backup the particular Jata in the resource like EC2. at some intervals ? 6. Write a terraform script, to create an EC2 instance and run tomcat server on the it, but the script should run the tomcat server only ONCE when the FC2 launches
7. Explain the k8s deployment strategy used by your project ?
8. Code works in one environment but fails ir others due to what ? and How do you fix it ?
9. Explain some of the Security Vulnerabilities you faced in automation.
10. Long build times slow down the development and deplovment process , Why ? How to take care of this issue ?
11. Difference between Docker Service . Docker Stack and Docker Swarm
12. What is the best way to connect to portal ? 13. Explain pod affinity and node affinity ir Kubernetes?

1) What all AWS services have you used, explair in terms of security.
2) You have lost the key to access an EC2 server how will you regain access
3) How will vou restrict access of a user who has the private key of an EC2 server
4) How will you provide access to the S3
bucket .Do vou know the $3 bucket policy created write it down
5) Can vou write a Terraform script, syntax doesn't matter , creating vpc, subnets and route tables.
5) Why VPC, subnets and route tables are used 7) How will you get back .tfstate file if it gets corrupted in $3
8) What is Terraform drift
9) If a same person is working on Terraform code how will ensure state locking,
10 Can you write docker file to install nodejs application explanation the best practices. 11) What is staging build
1 2) How will vou ensure communication betweer containers in Docker
13) Write kubernetes manifest file for database server and mount pyc to it
1 4) Explain architecture of Kubernetes
1 5) Any idea about Helm charts , can you explain where you have used it
16) If application is deployed in one AZ, how will you ensure restoration in less time, explain about disaster recovery,
1 7) Any idea about service mesh
18) What is your strategy to deploy in production how will you implement it with no downtime.
1 9) Do you know about logging and monitoring, now have you configured it
20) What way you used to write Pipeline Script 21) Are you using SonarQube, do you know how to configure it.
