1) What is Jenkins Shared Libraries? 2) Branching strategy that you follow? 3) How do you resolve Git merge conflicts? 4 Explain jenkins pipeline script flow 5) What security tools do you use? 5) Where vou store artifacts and how do you maintain version?
7) Do you have any idea about JFrog? 8) What do you deploy in your project? 9) Difference between RUN and CMD 10) Is Cl used or CD used in your productior deployment and what is used in your testinc environment?
1. How do I transfer payloads between lambda function in 2 different AWS account 2. What are the terraform lifecycle policies 3. How do you ensure the least privilege access to the IAM users
4. What is terraform external command and wher it should be used
5. How do you ensure particular AMI image is present in AWS account using terraform 6. What are terraform provisioners 7. What are s3 bucket lifecvcle policies? 8. What is meta-arguments in terraform?


1. How would you secure your APIs which are accessible to users
2. If production data is deleted by mistake, how will you handle the situation.,
3. Sensitive secrets accidentally get committed to a Git repository, how would you address this and prevent it from happening again
4. There is a requirement to deploy an application across multiple cloud providers to improve
5. How will you do monitoring and logging if there are multi cloud platforms. What solution will you provide.
6. Difference between code smells, bugs vulnerabilities, and technical debt from the codebase in sonarqube
7. Write the Kubernetes manifest file to deploy the new replica agent as a DaemonSet in kubernetes cluster
8. Write the docker file to create a httpd container and copy a config file and place in container and that config file data should be shown when the container port and IP address is hit
9. Does your project needs Al also, with DevOps, SRE tools?
10. Kubernetes Migration / Cost Optimization how have you done?
11. How did you design your EKS cluster ?
12. How the setup is done for kubernetes cluster? 13.What type of Instances used for worker nodes in kubernetes?
1 4.Have you done any performance engineering to select R type instance?
15. Why you have choose M type to R type instance for your kubernetes cluster?

1) What are null resources in Terraform and what isa state file?
2) What is Terraform taint? 3) What is Terraformarunt ?
4 How to define dependency in Terraform ? 5) What are modules and how to refer it in a script.
6) What have you provisioned using Terraform ? 7) How to create different subnets in VPC ? 8) Difference between terraform.tfvars file anc variables.tf file?
9) What issues vou have seen in GitHub 10) What is CDR ?
11) Difference between ingress and service 12) Explain about Kubernetes
13) Explain flow in Jenkins pipeline. 1 4) How to create pod in Kubernetes
1 5) How to resolve storage issue in a pod 16) I have to deploy an application, In which scenario you will choose EC2 and AWS lambda ? 17) How do vou trouble shoot 403 errors on the application in DevOps
18) Explain the difference between Continuous ntegration, Continuous deployment and Continuous delivery ?

1. You need to provision a VPC with 3 public subnets and 2 private subnets across 2 AZs. How will vou do it usina Terraform?
2. Your Terraform apply is failing due to a resource already exists error. How will you fix it ? 3. You need to deploy an EC2 instance and an S3 bucket, and output the instance public IP and pucket name. How will you do it?
4. How will you manage environments like Dev QA, Prod in Terraform?
5. Your team is workina on the same Terraform code. How will you handle the state file ?
6. You accidentally deleted a resource from Terraform code but don't want it to be destroved What will you do?
7. How will vou use Terraform modules in a rea project?
8. You need to update an AMI ID of an EC2 nstance without downtime. How will you achieve this ?


1 Difference between blue-green and canary and roll-out deployments ? which is more expensive? 2) Have you optimized CI/CD pipeline ? what problem you have faced ?
3) What is the ideal pipeline would look in your mnind ? explain strategies ?
4) What is code smell in SonarQube ?
5) What are AWS services you have worked on ? 5) Scenario - If you have to deploy a database or Ec2 instances, say MySQL, how will you use it anc what strategy u will use?
7) If you have to deploy a self hosted database? what will you do ?
8) How did you deploy EKS cluster in cloud? 9) Scenario - Say developers comes and tell you that they are developing a new micro-service , fou which they require DynamoDB table, What would be your strategy for that ?
1 0) Where the secrets has been stored in Kubernetes cluster?
11) Explain Load balancers? how u can achieve the load balancing in multi-region ?
12) How did you maintain cost optimization for the customer ?
13) Difference between Git merge and Git rebase and when would you prefer to use each in a collaborative DevOps env
1 4 What are Git submodules and when and why would you use them in a project.
1 5) What are Git hooks? How would you use them.
1 6) GitHub workflow and branching strategies ir your organization
1 7) How you would manage versioning for a project.
